---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-10T20:32:30.085Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-10T08:18:36.320Z'
title: INSIGHTS INTO THE DIGITAL WORLD
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-10-51bc5b6e-f7b0-4ab7-925c-5aa55a968484.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 51bc5b6e-f7b0-4ab7-925c-5aa55a968484/index.html
_type: Article

---
**INSIGHTS INTO THE DIGITAL WORLD**

The rapid expansion of hyperconnectivity and the proliferation of mobile and cloud has made it inevitable that the digital movement would overtake every aspect of our personal and commercial existence. Certainly, in the past 5 years, this prediction has turned out to be remarkable correct. 

The digital movement is in itself, neither new nor particularly groundbreaking.  Wikipedia defines  **"digitization"** as_"the representation of an object, image, sound, document or signal (usually an analog signal) by generating a series of numbers that describe a discrete set of its points or samples"_. By that definition, the digital movement has been in existence ever since man converted the first set of analog data into digital format - paper, radio or television signals etc.

Within the context of the industrial revolution, and then more recently, the internet age, "digital" has come to mean a number of different things - automation of manual processes, streamlining of business operations, mobilization of customers - all of which point to improving how businesses and people interact with each other and themselves. 

This digital movement is more interesting and dynamic, because it draws away from the traditional concepts of business improvement and optimization, and brings more focus to the_mindsets_and_rationales_driving innovation. For the first time, we are witnessing a near-parity between traditional industrial powerhouses and innovative startups. Apple, Google and Microsoft are three of the most valuable businesses in the world by market value**[(ranking 1st, 4th and 5th respectively)][0], **with the top 5 rounded off with ExxonMobil**(2nd)**and Berkshire Hathaway**(3rd)**. As the traditional businesses of commodities, manufacturing, energy, and financial services have begun to falter, there is an even greater drive to discover innovations that can unlock new wealth.

Innovation in itself is no longer sufficient to grow market share, attract new customers, or boost profitability, which has led to greater scrutiny into "**how"**companies innovate.**"Disruption"**is another buzzword in the air (with examples such as Uber, AirBnB all too common), but much like digitization, the concepts of disruption and[**disruptive innovation**][1] (which was defined and analyzed as far back as 1995 by Clayton M. Christensen) are not all that revolutionary. However, the success of companies such as Uber have drawn more attention to the potential for wealth creation open to those who are willing to take risks. As_with most things in life, the more successful they prove, the more popular they become._

Over the next few weeks, (and hopefully, years to come) we will look to explore what digitization, innovation, disruption and many other trends and topics mean in the world today, how they affect our personal lives and businesses daily, and how they will shape the future to come.

Enjoy!

Arinze

[0]: http://www.statista.com/statistics/263264/top-companies-in-the-world-by-market-value/
[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disruptive_innovation